# The Green Bindi
## Mridula Garg

As soon as they opened, her eyes darted to the watch strapped on her wrist, as they always did as soon as she woke, by habit. It was only 6:30. Immediately she squeezed her eyes shut once more and began waiting--the bed would creak and the sound would come, "Don't you have to get up?" But then after a while the silence remained. She opened her eyes--she was alone on her bed. Oh, right, Rajan had gone to Delhi last night. She had forgotten. So then there was no rush to get up. She puffed up her cheeks with all of her breath and let one long breath out, and sprawled all over the bed. She went to the other edge and, resting her arm on her face, lay still. And the watch's ticking filled her ears intensely. She smiled. She had a habit of putting on the watch before sleeping. Every day Rajan would fret and say, "What this? The watch ticks next to your ear all night. Why don't you take it off?" She took her arm from her face and squeezed a pillow below her stomach. She spread her limbs all over the giant bed and lay splayed across it. Oh, how much pleasure there is to be had in sleeping in in the morning. When Rajan is there all the hustle-bustle has to start by 6:36. Preparing breakfast, lunch along with it, and Rajan leaving for the office at 8:00. Who knows why Rajan had this affliction of rising early. Well, today she is free. She shall do as she pleases. She let her body loose and prepared to fall asleep again.

Then when her eye opened it had already become 8:30. She made a cup of chai and opened the window's curtain and peered outside. Fog was spread as far as you could see. Today it will rain for sure, she thought. Fog very much pleased her. When she can't know what was just over there in the distance, she suddenly begins hoping that some extraordinary, enchanting thing will be there. I too am splendid, she thought as she smiled, I feel free in the mist and suffocate in the the sun's light! She finished her tea and thought she might bathe for a long time with hot water, so she started filling a bucket. Then suddenly she let loose a spray of cold water and she started humming a ghazal. With a great towel, she scrubbed and wiped her body well. Today she was feeling strange vigor and excitement. She put on a blue kurta and chudidar pajama, and put out her hand put on a blue bindi. Then, for some reason, she cast it aside and put on a rather large green bindi. If Rajan were here he would have said, "Not blue, but green? What style is that?" She stuck her tongue out at her reflection in the mirror and said cheekily, "Where's the style in style?" And she burst into laughter.
