The National Green Tribunal is quite active with the spreading poison in Delhi’s air. The tribunal has been giving an interim mandate, as an expedited public interest hearing continues, through which its concerns and responsibility can be understood. The tribunal put forth its first order on November 26, 2014, in which it stated that any motor vehicle older than 15 years may not be used in Delhi and that any such vehicle would be seized. The RTO [Regional Transport Office of Dehli] cannot process these vehicles' registrations, fitness [???], or renewals. If any such motor vehicle should be parked in a public place, then it will be seized with a ticket issued for its owner. The tribunal has also stated that nobody may stop freely-flowing vehicles on the road and cause disruptions. [<-- I suspect this is wrong.] On the roads of commercial complexes, parking may only be provided on one side by law. To promote biking, bike lanes may be made available. During the hearing on these matters, Delhi's transportation authority told the tribunal that according to the motor registration department's statistics, the number of vehicles over fifteen years old in Delhi is twenty-eight lakh (2.8 million).

On April 6, 2015, the Green Tribunal said again in an mandate that diesel vehicles over ten years old would be banned. It remains to be seen how easily the government will enforce this directive and manage to bear in mind the public's health.

In this matter, the National Green Tribunal is worried that, owing to air pollution, there will continue to be drops in the city's health. Different studies and statistics from the city's hospitals reveal that aerosolized pollutants are continuing to take the city in its embrace. Motor vehicle emissions include elements like lead, arsenic, and nickel, which aggravate respiratory conditions, asthmatic patients' hearts [???], and cause harm to the throat. Harm is done to the lungs from rising levels of nitrogen oxide in the air. This transition [in air composition] is diminishing the buffering capacity and because of this, illnesses like high blood pressure, depression, and eye disease are wreaking havoc on the vitality of the city. In different seasons, the pollution often fluctuates in the air.

Motor vehicles' ever-increasing numbers, in addition to air pollution, has also caused horrible noise pollution. Because of noise pollution, children, adults, and the elderly alike have either lost some hearing ability or are well on their way to permanent deafness. The effect of increasing noise pollution can be judged by the increase in the affairs of premature labor [of the tribunal, because the hearing is still ongoing?], as well [???]. 15-20 decibel sound can't harm the ears. But noise from vehicles range from seventy-five to ninety decibels.

The supreme court gave one such historical decision in 1998, stating that, with the health of the city in mind, all motor vehicles belonging to the fleets of public vehicles must convert to compressed natural gas, and that those vehicles that cannot [make the transition] must be taken off the streets. As soon as this order was carried out, the city was thrown into a panic. Because of CNG's unavailability and a huge number of buses, autorickshaws, and taxis being suddenly removed from the road, people had to face great difficulty during rush hour [lit. during traffic]. The government removed motorvehicles from the road, butthey did not organize the public transport system on the scale that they had to. After the supreme court's decision, if the government had been attentive and taken action then city-dwellers could have been saved from today's pollution-laden air.

In Delhi and the country's other cities, our governments have failed to provide the sort of infrastructure development and transportation solutions that are necessary. On the agenda of our governments there has been an increase in the number [of projects] of widening of roads, construction of flyovers (overpasses), and signal-free corridors (freeways), and construction of multilevel car parking (car garages) has especially been happening, which serves to increase the number of cars. This is the very reason that in Dehli, from 2000 to 2015, the graph of growth in cars has shot up, right along with that of pollution.

Expansion of automotive infrastructure has devoured the city's green space. Parks have turned into parking. In 2006, the City Development Ministry enacted the National City Transportation law, in which mention of this matter was made, that public transportation will be fundamental, and private cars will be discouraged. Under this, there was an expectation of making warp and woof of bus-based public transportation, and as the other step of this, there was talk of taking buses out of congested roads and giving them their own protected lane. From this the idea of the BRT [Dehli's Bus Rapid Transit] arose.

This plan managed to make a few steps forward, but it was continual prey for political jockeying, and it died before it could be born. In a few cities such as Dehli, Pune, Indore, Ahmedabad, Rajkot, and Jaipur, this idea was experimented with, and every city's story was the same. In the time of today's public transportation, it is a universal necessity. The cities that do not give this priority plunge their entire society into peril.

In Dehli, there is a thirty-three thousand kilometer-long road network and it is fully dedicated to cars and motor vehicles. On these roads buses there are a mere six-thousand buses. Though the government itself concedes that overall eleven thousand buses are needed, buses constantly get stuck in jams. Despite this, among these buses the number of daily riders are somewhere around 50 to 55 lakh (5 to 5.5 million). If a dedicated bus lane were given to these buses, then it would do much to help their riders reach their destinations safe and on time. If buses were increased according to demand, then there could be a reduction in the graph of crouds, insecurity, molestation, and crime during travel, and there could be amazing growth in ridership.

Buses alone cannot be the solution for a city's transportation system. The next step will be the making of favorable infrastructure accommodations for the distance that will be between first and final stops and all modes of transportation. For this, foodpaths and zebra crossings are necessary in a fundamental way for pedestrians (among which people of all classes and ages are present). Only then will most of the public transportation system run smoothly.

In Dehli, the number of bicycle owners is stunning. Based on the 2001 and 2011 censuses, the number of Dehli's bicycle owners are respectively 36.60 and 30.50 percent. This number is larger than the rate of ownership in the city of any other sort of vehicle. According to government figures, between 1960 and 1970, for every ten vehicles in use in Delhi, seven were bikes. Despite this, there have been no safe paths for their coming and going. For this reason, riding a bike is a dangerous business.

In the city, the number of cycle rickshaws is sizable. This vehicle is not only pollution free, but also job-creating. If given a privileged place in the transportation infrastructure of the city, not only could help be given in the solution of the city's problems, but also the idea of "the symbol of poverty and backwardness" (i.e. the cycle rickshaw) could be changed. All these are solutions for transportation are such that their cost is proportionally small and they are both within our reach and modifiable based on needs. Although the metro is also in the city, for this reason it will be necessary to that all forms of city transportation be joined with each other and complement each other.

The problem of traffic management in any society is not just a problem of the legal system, which the police might claim. For traffic management a [dedicated] department is inevitable, even if it should be joined to the police department. Based on the conclusions of studies done in all sorts of approaches to traffic in the entire world, the timing of traffic lights has been determined to be essential. Our country's leadership wishes to adopt China's model. The world is aware of their results. It is because of the path that China's urban development took that they put the lives of their city-dwellers into peril. For this reason, in some Chinese cities in 2013 people struggled to see the sun. Neither sunrise, nor sunset. Children and teenagers complained of throat irriation and shortness of breath, because of which schools were closed. Crowds swelled in government hospitals. This was the reason: dissolution of toxic substances in the air in extreme amounts. The world used to know China as the land of bicycles; a new round of leadership has changed it into the land of cars. Now the crisis is palpable.

To overcome this, China's government imposed a limit on the registration of cars. By lottery or bidding, the number of cars has been discouraged. Today this process is being adopted in all of China's cities. Right now India is a long way from China, but not that far--this apparent from the conclusions of various studies and the instructions of the court.

On the one hand, the National Green Front is giving instructions to rein in cars, and on the other hand, "your" government in Dehli, having done no calculation or evaluation, has only announced a principled approval for destroying a six kilometer-long BRT corridor. This is the very party the common people caused to win with an unbounded majority and love. According to the court's ruling, the national urban transportation law, and the constitutional provisions, such a step is can absolutely not be democratic. A group of youths against the Dehli government's step has drummed up a campaign under a "Give Buses a Road" banner. It's known that in Brazil and a few countries of the world, campaigns are being run in the name of "free public transporation".

Prime Minister Narendra Modi installed the air quality index on April 6. For this reason, India has come on the list of five countries in the world who have instituted such an index. On this occasion he suggested that we ride a bicycle on every Sunday. A few countries' national leaderships have, to inspire their people, chosen plain and simple lifetypes, and first did themselves what they would ask of their people. Right along side the prime minister's bicycle remark in the news, pictures also appeared of the heads-of-state of a few countries riding a bicycle every day, among them Holland's prime minister, Denmark's prince, London's mayor, and Bhutan's head of state were also present.
